[Music]
if you're looking for a foolproof diet
backed by science you're gonna love this
one and it's not just some
unsubstantiated pseudoscience but based
on a Nobel prize-winning idea before we
unveil the mystery take a moment to
subscribe to our Channel and turn on
post notifications to keep up with all
our updates Japanese biologist dr.
Yoshinori Osumi discovered a way of
eating that helps us stay youthful and
healthy his idea was so innovative that
he received the 2016 Nobel Prize in
Physiology or medicine according to his
work when we go longer periods of time
without eating ourselves recycle
everything old and useless and
rejuvenate themselves in a process
called otaku G so we looked into
different types of interval fasting and
chose the simplest and safest plan for
you it'll kick start that al-kafi g
process and keep you young and fit what
is a diet window a diet window is
basically the time between your first
and last meal of the day let's say you
usually wake up at 7 a.m. and have
breakfast an hour later that means that
you've opened this window at 8 a.m. if
you finish your day off with supper at 8
or 10 p.m. then your diet window is 12
to 14 hours every day before dr. o
soomi's discovery people always believe
that they should eat more often but in
small portions because otherwise the
body would store fat but according to a
recent 2017 study by dr. Sachin panda of
the Salk Institute in San Diego people
who eat from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. are less
healthy than those who eat from 8 a.m.
to 2 p.m. when the diet window is
narrower the chances of developing
diabetes
yeah cancer and obesity are lower but
when you eat whenever you want
including those late night fridge rates
were all guilty of you mess up your
circadian rhythm you see this is your
body's natural cycle and it wasn't
designed for 24 by 7 food consumption
dr. panda's team analyzed the eating
habits of a hundred and fifty-six adults
a mere 10 percent of them were eating
within a 12-hour window while over half
enjoyed yummy stuff for at least 15
hours a day
the researchers offered eight slightly
overweight people to go from a 14-hour
eating cycle down to a 10 hour window as
a result they lost weight and felt way
more energized after four months of
enjoying their favorite meals but on a
limited time gap so staying slim and
healthy is more a product of when you
eat not what you eat what happens if you
reduce your eating window there have
been multiple studies on the connection
between a smaller diet window and
cholesterol and blood sugar levels
appetite and weight in a 2017 study
researchers at the University of Alabama
at Birmingham tested their theory by
narrowing participants eating windows to
twelve eight six four four hours all of
the studies people ate the same food as
they normally would without choosing any
special diet foods and they ate the same
number of calories as the control groups
indeed those with a decreased time frame
for eating showed obvious weight loss
and better health so how exactly does a
smaller eating window help you lose
weight it happens because the body burns
more fat at night plus both hunger and
energy expenditure decrease this was
proven by a similar study in 2013 by the
Department of Exercise Sciences at
Brigham Young University a smaller
metabolic window has tons of other
health benefits besides weight loss
it increases protection from UV
radiation which means less aging and a
lower risk of developing skin cancer it
significantly decreases high blood
pressure as well as the chance of
developing breast cancer it also reduces
the likelihood of suffering from serious
heart conditions abiding by the rithm
nature itself has provided you will keep
your cardiovascular health at its best
this also has to do with the decreased
risk of developing diabetes which does a
real number on the heart finally you'll
get much better sleep why is the time
you eat so important
it's important not just to cut the diet
window down but to also choose the right
time to eat everybody has their own
circadian rhythm that biological clock
we mentioned earlier that's closely
connected with day/night changes
although we all have this natural clock
built in us it can adapt to external
factors like light and temperature a
group of geneticists namely doctors
Jeffery Hall Michael Ross fish and
Michael Young won the 2017 Nobel Prize
in Physiology or medicine for their
groundbreaking work on this subject
they studied how molecular mechanisms
affect our internal clock a much easier
to understand example of this can be
found in the shame plant its leaves open
when the sun's out during the day and
close at night as for humans and other
multicellular organisms we have a more
advanced and complicated cycle the
researchers found that different phases
of the day are the best times for
certain natural activities but when we
break the cycle and go against our
biological clock we increase the risk of
developing obesity and diabetes so
here's what you should know in order to
keep up with your natural cycle in the
morning our body starts producing
cortisol and we have energy and an
appetite in the evening melatonin is
produced which means the body is
preparing itself for sleep by slowing
down internal processes like digestion
if you eat in the evening it throws your
biological clock out of whack you become
tired in the morning since your cortisol
levels are low your body doesn't wake up
till later in the day in the evening
your cortisol level is high so you get
more energized and hungry even though
your body needs to sleep as a result you
have a higher risk of developing
diabetes obesity and depression
how to build your new eating schedule to
be more in tune with your body's natural
cycle need to follow some simple rules
wake up at 6:00 or 7:00 a.m. or when
it's light outside have breakfast 30 to
60 minutes after waking up start work 2
to 3 hours after you get up eat more for
breakfast than for lunch
shorten your diet window to 6 to 8 hours
without changing how many calories you
take in the nine-hour window is a pretty
rough schedule to follow you have to
wake up at 7 a.m. have a hearty
breakfast at 8 have a light lunch at
noon and then have dinner at 4 p.m. and
if you can don't eat anything after that
sounds hard I know but the end result is
so worth it if you're up for the
challenge how to fight the hunger of
course many people worry about feeling
starved for the entire evening
scientists at Denmark's our house
University Hospital even looked into
this back in 2005 it turns out that the
hunger hormone ghrelin is tied to our
circadian rhythm it peaks in the blood
at 8:00 a.m. 1 p.m. and 7 p.m.
after every peak no matter if a person
has eaten something or just had a cup of
tea the flow of the hormone always stops
two hours later this means that you
shouldn't trust the feeling of hunger
that makes you eat every three hours
scientists claim that over time the body
will get used to taking big breaks
between meals and it won't feel hungry
so often the same works the other way
around though if you eat more often your
hunger is stronger as with any major
change especially when it comes to
eating it'll be hard to narrow down your
diet window at first for the first few
days you'll feel like you could eat an
elephant by 7 p.m. but you can pull
through this rocky phase by eating
fruits and vegetables a week later the
body will get used to it
your appetite will be smaller and you'll
start seeing all the amazing
benefits so really this diet plan isn't
all that scary or impossible here's all
you have to do figure out what your diet
window is if you have breakfast at 8
a.m. and dinner at 8 p.m. your diet
window is 12 hours narrow your window
down to 6 to 8 hours and keep it in the
early part of the day from 8 a.m. to 2
or 4 p.m.
do not count calories they don't matter
yay after a week or two your body will
get used to it and you'll be feeling
fresh as a daisy every morning even on
Mondays do you want to give this diet a
try tell me in the comments below don't
forget to click Subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life